# Software-Design-Document

In comparing differences and similarities between developing software for cloud/based systems versus traditional operating systems, key differences are that cloud platforms are developed for distributed architecture and maintain a focus on scalability. Distributed computing enables users to access their data through a remote server instead of their physical machine. Traditional computing, on other hand, is designed to operate on individual systems. Similarities include software development practices such as testing and deployment, which are required when developing software regardless of the architecture used.

In a cloud-based development model, the term server less means that software developers can build and execute programs without having to also manage servers. Server still exist in this model, but are handled by the cloud provider who manages, maintains, and scales the server infrastructure as required by the organization. As a result, developers can easily package their code in containers for deployment, however, should be familiar with the cloud provider’s pricing model and limitations to ensure development remains within budget. 

Architecting programs for the cloud is different than for traditional operating systems, as applications must be built for distributed architecture, with scalability, and security in mine. This flexibility and scalability permit cost-saving benefits and efficiency in app development but may require additional planning and design work initially. 

Traditional infrastructures require a significant investment in server and hardware infrastructure, while cloud models allow organizations to pay for the resources they need. Additionally, the cloud offers automatic scaling, making this platform more cost-efficient for software development than traditional infrastructure, in some use cases, especially when increased flexibility and scalability are needed for the application. It’s important to consider the needs of the specific application at hand when choosing the right platform for development. 
